DOCS/testing/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Testing
nav_order: 7
has_children: true
---

# Testing

Comprehensive testing documentation for our application including unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end testing.

## Testing Strategy

Our testing approach includes multiple layers:

### Unit Tests

- **Framework**: Jest
- **Coverage**: Component logic, utility functions, API endpoints
- **Location**: `__tests__` directories alongside source files
- **Execution**: Parallel shards for faster CI runs
- **CI Status**: **Required** - must pass for workflow to succeed

### Integration Tests

- **Framework**: Jest with testing utilities
- **Coverage**: Component interactions, API integrations
- **Focus**: Data flow between components and services
- **CI Status**: **Required** - must pass for workflow to succeed

### End-to-End Tests

- **Framework**: Playwright
- **Coverage**: Critical user journeys, browser compatibility
- **Browsers**: Chromium, Firefox, WebKit
- **Environment**: Full application stack with test database
- **CI Status**: **Optional** - provide feedback but don't block PRs

## Available Guides

### [Continuous Integration Tests](ci-tests.html)

Detailed documentation of our CI testing pipeline, job dependencies, and troubleshooting guide.

## Quick Reference

### Running Tests Locally

```bash
# Unit and integration tests
npm run test

# E2E tests
npm run test:e2e

# Coverage report
npm run test:coverage
```

### Test File Patterns

- Unit tests: `*.test.ts`, `*.test.tsx`
- E2E tests: `*.spec.ts` in `tests/` directory
- Test utilities: `__tests__/utils/`

### Writing Tests

- Follow the AAA pattern (Arrange, Act, Assert)
- Use descriptive test names
- Mock external dependencies
- Test error conditions
- Maintain test independence

## CI Pipeline

Our automated testing runs on every pull request:

- **Jest Tests**: 3 parallel shards for speed (**required**)
- **Playwright Tests**: Sequential for reliability (**optional**)
- **Coverage Reports**: Combined and analyzed
- **Quality Gates**: SonarCloud integration

**Test Requirements:**

- **Unit/Integration tests (Jest)**: Must pass for PR approval
- **E2E tests (Playwright)**: Optional - provide valuable feedback but won't block merging
- **Coverage thresholds**: Enforced through SonarCloud quality gates

## Related Documentation

- [Development Testing](../development/testing.html)
- [CI/CD Pipeline](../deployment/ci-cd.html)
- [Development Setup](../development/index.html)

Commit message:

feat(e2e): enhance Docker E2E testing setup with Playwright
- Updated Docker configuration to include Playwright browser dependencies and caching.
- Added new scripts for running E2E tests in Docker and managing browser installations.
- Introduced comprehensive documentation for Docker E2E testing setup, including environment variables and troubleshooting tips.
- Improved pre-commit hook to handle documentation coverage checks locally, removing the need for CI/CD documentation coverage logic.
- Updated various CSS files to enhance layout and responsiveness.

This commit significantly improves the E2E testing experience in Docker, ensuring better reliability and ease of use.

DOCS/testing/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Testing
nav_order: 7
has_children: true
---

# Testing

Comprehensive testing documentation for our application including unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end testing.

## Testing Strategy

Our testing approach includes multiple layers:

### Unit Tests

- **Framework**: Jest
- **Coverage**: Component logic, utility functions, API endpoints
- **Location**: `__tests__` directories alongside source files
- **Execution**: Parallel shards for faster CI runs
- **CI Status**: **Required** - must pass for workflow to succeed

### Integration Tests

- **Framework**: Jest with testing utilities
- **Coverage**: Component interactions, API integrations
- **Focus**: Data flow between components and services
- **CI Status**: **Required** - must pass for workflow to succeed

### End-to-End Tests

- **Framework**: Playwright
- **Coverage**: Critical user journeys, browser compatibility
- **Browsers**: Chromium, Firefox, WebKit
- **Environment**: Full application stack with test database
- **CI Status**: **Optional** - provide feedback but don't block PRs

## Available Guides

### [Continuous Integration Tests](ci-tests.html)

Detailed documentation of our CI testing pipeline, job dependencies, and troubleshooting guide.

### [Docker E2E Testing Setup](docker-e2e-setup.html)

Complete guide for running Playwright E2E tests in Docker environment with authentication setup and troubleshooting.

## Quick Reference

### Running Tests Locally

```bash
# Unit and integration tests
npm run test

# E2E tests
npm run test:e2e

# Coverage report
npm run test:coverage
```

### Test File Patterns

- Unit tests: `*.test.ts`, `*.test.tsx`
- E2E tests: `*.spec.ts` in `tests/` directory
- Test utilities: `__tests__/utils/`

### Writing Tests

- Follow the AAA pattern (Arrange, Act, Assert)
- Use descriptive test names
- Mock external dependencies
- Test error conditions
- Maintain test independence

## CI Pipeline

Our automated testing runs on every pull request:

- **Jest Tests**: 3 parallel shards for speed (**required**)
- **Playwright Tests**: Sequential for reliability (**optional**)
- **Coverage Reports**: Combined and analyzed
- **Quality Gates**: SonarCloud integration

**Test Requirements:**

- **Unit/Integration tests (Jest)**: Must pass for PR approval
- **E2E tests (Playwright)**: Optional - provide valuable feedback but won't block merging
- **Coverage thresholds**: Enforced through SonarCloud quality gates

## Related Documentation

- [Development Testing](../development/testing.html)
- [CI/CD Pipeline](../deployment/ci-cd.html)
- [Development Setup](../development/index.html)
