development.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 'Development'
description: 'Development tools, guides, and resources for Idling.app'
permalink: /development/
nav_order: 4
---

# 🛠️ Development Guide

Comprehensive development resources for contributing to Idling.app.

## 🎯 Development Overview

This section covers everything developers need to know to work effectively with the Idling.app codebase.

## 🧩 Core Areas

### [🧩 Components](/development/components/)
UI components and design system documentation.

**Key Topics:**
- Rich Input System - Advanced text editing
- Filter Bar - Search and filtering interfaces  
- Floating Toolbar - Context-sensitive actions
- Component Library - Reusable UI components

### [🗄️ Database](/development/database/)
Database architecture, migrations, and optimization.

**Key Topics:**
- Migration management and versioning
- Performance optimization strategies
- Data modeling and relationships
- Backup and recovery procedures

### [📚 Libraries](/development/libraries/)
Shared utilities, services, and React hooks.

**Key Topics:**
- Core services (auth, caching, logging)
- Utility functions and parsers
- Custom React hooks
- TypeScript type definitions

### [🧪 Testing](/development/testing/)
Testing strategies and quality assurance.

**Key Topics:**
- Unit testing with Jest
- End-to-end testing with Playwright
- Integration testing patterns
- CI/CD pipeline testing

### [🔧 Tools](/development/tools/)
Development environment and debugging tools.

**Key Topics:**
- Environment setup and configuration
- Performance monitoring and optimization
- Debugging techniques and tools
- Code quality and linting

## 🚀 Quick Start for Developers

1. **Setup Development Environment**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI.git
   cd idling.app__UI
   yarn install
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

2. **Run Development Server**
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

3. **Run Tests**
   ```bash
   yarn test
   yarn test:e2e
   ```

4. **Build and Deploy**
   ```bash
   yarn build
   yarn start
   ```

## 🎨 Development Standards

### Code Quality
- TypeScript for type safety
- ESLint for code consistency
- Prettier for formatting
- Husky for pre-commit hooks

### Documentation
- Co-located documentation strategy
- JSDoc comments for functions
- README files for modules
- Architecture decision records

### Testing
- Unit tests for business logic
- Integration tests for API endpoints
- E2E tests for critical user flows
- Performance tests for optimization

## 🔄 Development Workflow

1. **Create Feature Branch**
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. **Develop and Test**
   ```bash
   yarn dev
   yarn test
   ```

3. **Commit Changes**
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
   ```

4. **Create Pull Request**
   - Follow PR template
   - Include tests and documentation
   - Request code review

## 📊 Development Metrics

- **Code Coverage**: Target 85%+ for critical paths
- **Build Time**: < 2 minutes for full build
- **Test Suite**: < 30 seconds for unit tests
- **Bundle Size**: Monitor and optimize

## 🆘 Getting Help

- [📚 Component Documentation](/development/components/)
- [🔧 Development Tools](/development/tools/)
- [👥 Community Support](/community/)
- [🐛 Issue Tracker](https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI/issues)

---

*This is a stub file. [Contribute to expand this documentation](/community/contributing/).*

Commit message:

Refactor documentation and remove obsolete files
- Updated various documentation files to reflect the current development status, marking several as "under development" for clarity.
- Removed outdated HTML report files and JavaScript components that are no longer in use, streamlining the project structure.
- Enhanced documentation organization by adding descriptions and sidebar positions in architecture-related files for better navigation.
- Introduced new templates for documentation consistency and improved user experience.

This commit improves the overall clarity and maintainability of the documentation resources.

development.md, after:

---
title: 'Development Guide'
description: 'Comprehensive development resources and contributor guidelines'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# 🛠️ Development Guide

Comprehensive development resources for contributing to Idling.app.

## 🎯 Development Overview

This section covers everything developers need to know to work effectively with the Idling.app codebase.

## 🧩 Core Areas

### [🧩 Components](/development/components/)

UI components and design system documentation.

**Key Topics:**

- Rich Input System - Advanced text editing
- Filter Bar - Search and filtering interfaces
- Floating Toolbar - Context-sensitive actions
- Component Library - Reusable UI components

### [🗄️ Database](/development/database/)

Database architecture, migrations, and optimization.

**Key Topics:**

- Migration management and versioning
- Performance optimization strategies
- Data modeling and relationships
- Backup and recovery procedures

### [📚 Libraries](/development/libraries/)

Shared utilities, services, and React hooks.

**Key Topics:**

- Core services (auth, caching, logging)
- Utility functions and parsers
- Custom React hooks
- TypeScript type definitions

### [🧪 Testing](/development/testing/)

Testing strategies and quality assurance.

**Key Topics:**

- Unit testing with Jest
- End-to-end testing with Playwright
- Integration testing patterns
- CI/CD pipeline testing

### [🔧 Tools](/development/tools/)

Development environment and debugging tools.

**Key Topics:**

- Environment setup and configuration
- Performance monitoring and optimization
- Debugging techniques and tools
- Code quality and linting

## 🚀 Quick Start for Developers

1. **Setup Development Environment**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI.git
   cd idling.app__UI
   yarn install
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

2. **Run Development Server**

   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

3. **Run Tests**

   ```bash
   yarn test
   yarn test:e2e
   ```

4. **Build and Deploy**
   ```bash
   yarn build
   yarn start
   ```

## 🎨 Development Standards

### Code Quality

- TypeScript for type safety
- ESLint for code consistency
- Prettier for formatting
- Husky for pre-commit hooks

### Documentation

- Co-located documentation strategy
- JSDoc comments for functions
- README files for modules
- Architecture decision records

### Testing

- Unit tests for business logic
- Integration tests for API endpoints
- E2E tests for critical user flows
- Performance tests for optimization

## 🔄 Development Workflow

1. **Create Feature Branch**

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. **Develop and Test**

   ```bash
   yarn dev
   yarn test
   ```

3. **Commit Changes**

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
   ```

4. **Create Pull Request**
   - Follow PR template
   - Include tests and documentation
   - Request code review

## 📊 Development Metrics

- **Code Coverage**: Target 85%+ for critical paths
- **Build Time**: < 2 minutes for full build
- **Test Suite**: < 30 seconds for unit tests
- **Bundle Size**: Monitor and optimize

## 🆘 Getting Help

- [📚 Component Documentation](/development/components/)
- [🔧 Development Tools](/development/tools/)
- [👥 Community Support](/community/)
- [🐛 Issue Tracker](https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI/issues)

---

**This documentation is under development. [Contribute to expand this documentation](/community/contributing/).**
