getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 'Getting Started'
description: 'Get up and running with Idling.app development'
permalink: /getting-started/
nav_order: 2
---

# 🚀 Getting Started

Welcome to Idling.app! This guide will help you get up and running with the project.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and Yarn
- Docker and Docker Compose
- PostgreSQL (via Docker)
- Go 1.21+ (for CLI tools)

## 🏃 Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI.git
   cd idling.app__UI
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Start development environment**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Visit the application**
   - Main app: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
   - Documentation: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

## 📚 Next Steps

- [📦 Installation Guide](/getting-started/installation/) - Detailed setup instructions
- [🏃 Quick Start Guide](/getting-started/quickstart/) - Rapid development setup
- [🐳 Docker Setup](/getting-started/docker/) - Containerized development
- [🔌 API Documentation](/api/) - Explore the API

## 🆘 Need Help?

- Check our [Community](/community/) resources
- Browse [Development Documentation](/development/)
- Review [Architecture](/architecture/) guides

---

_This is a stub file. [Contribute to expand this documentation](/community/contributing/)._

Commit message:

Refactor documentation and remove obsolete files
- Updated various documentation files to reflect the current development status, marking several as "under development" for clarity.
- Removed outdated HTML report files and JavaScript components that are no longer in use, streamlining the project structure.
- Enhanced documentation organization by adding descriptions and sidebar positions in architecture-related files for better navigation.
- Introduced new templates for documentation consistency and improved user experience.

This commit improves the overall clarity and maintainability of the documentation resources.

getting-started.md, after:

---
title: 'Getting Started'
description: 'Quick start guide and introduction to Idling.app'
sidebar_position: 6
---

# 🚀 Getting Started

Welcome to Idling.app! This guide will help you get up and running with the project.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ and Yarn
- Docker and Docker Compose
- PostgreSQL (via Docker)
- Go 1.21+ (for CLI tools)

## 🏃 Quick Start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/idling.app__UI.git
   cd idling.app__UI
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Start development environment**

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   yarn dev
   ```

4. **Visit the application**
   - Main app: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
   - Documentation: [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

## 📚 Next Steps

- [📦 Installation Guide](/getting-started/installation/) - Detailed setup instructions
- [🏃 Quick Start Guide](/getting-started/quickstart/) - Rapid development setup
- [🐳 Docker Setup](/getting-started/docker/) - Containerized development
- [🔌 API Documentation](/api/) - Explore the API

## 🆘 Need Help?

- Check our [Community](/community/) resources
- Browse [Development Documentation](/development/)
- Review [Architecture](/architecture/) guides

---

**This documentation is under development. [Contribute to expand this documentation](/community/contributing/).**
