DOCS/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Idling.app Documentation
description: Complete documentation for the Idling.app project - migrations, deployment, development guides and more
---

# 📚 Idling.app Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for **Idling.app** - a modern social platform built with Next.js, PostgreSQL, and cutting-edge web technologies.

## 🚀 Quick Start

- **[Getting Started](./getting-started)** - Set up your development environment
- **[Database Setup](./database/migrations)** - Migration system and database management
- **[Rate Limiting](./rate-limiting/)** - Security and performance protection system
- **[Deployment Guide](./deployment)** - Production deployment instructions

## 📖 Documentation Sections

### 🧩 Components

- **[Rich Input System](./components/rich-input-system/)** - Comprehensive documentation for the intelligent text editing component

### 🗄️ Database & Migrations

- **[Migration System Guide](./database/migrations)** - Complete migration system documentation
- **[Database Optimization](./database/optimization)** - Performance optimization strategies
- **[Massive Seed Data](./database/massive-seed)** - Generate test data for development

### 🔧 Development

- **[Smart Filters](./development/smart-filters)** - Advanced filtering system
- **[Cache Strategy](./development/caching)** - Production caching implementation
- **[CI/CD Tests](./development/testing)** - Continuous integration setup

### 🛡️ Security & Rate Limiting

- **[Rate Limiting System](./rate-limiting/)** - Comprehensive rate limiting and security documentation
- **[System Overview](./rate-limiting/overview/)** - How the rate limiting system works
- **[User Guide](./rate-limiting/user-guide/)** - Best practices for working with rate limits
- **[Troubleshooting](./rate-limiting/troubleshooting/)** - Diagnosing and resolving rate limit issues
- **[Admin Guide](./rate-limiting/admin-guide/)** - Administrative tools and procedures

### 🚀 Deployment & Operations

- **[Production Deployment](./deployment/production)** - Server deployment guide
- **[Cache Management](./deployment/cache-management)** - Cache disabling and management
- **[Release Process](./deployment/releases)** - Release notes and versioning

### 🧪 Testing

- **[CI Testing Pipeline](./testing/ci-tests)** - Continuous integration testing
- **[Testing Strategy](./testing/)** - Unit, integration, and E2E testing

### 🔧 Troubleshooting

- **[Application Issues](./troubleshooting/application-issues-fixes)** - Common problems and solutions
- **[Debug Guide](./troubleshooting/)** - Troubleshooting methodology

### 🏗️ Architecture

- **[System Architecture](./architecture/)** - High-level system design and patterns
- **[User Identification](./architecture/USER_IDENTIFICATION_ARCHITECTURE)** - Authentication system design

### 📦 Components

- **[Component Library](./components/)** - UI component documentation and patterns

### 📚 Libraries

- **[Internal Libraries](./libraries/)** - Shared utilities and modules
- **[Parsers](./libraries/parsers)** - Text parsing utilities
- **[Logging System](./libraries/logging)** - Application logging and monitoring

### 📋 Templates

- **[Project Templates](./templates/)** - Standardized document formats
- **[Pull Request Template](./templates/pull_request_template)** - PR description format

### 📝 Project Management

- **[Commit Guidelines](./project/commits)** - Git commit standards
- **[Recent Updates](./project/updates)** - Latest project updates

### 📊 Reports

- **[Development Reports](./reports/)** - Feature debriefs and project analysis
- **[Demo Feature Debrief](./reports/demo-feature-debrief)** - Implementation analysis

### 🔧 Scripts

- **[Development Scripts](./scripts/)** - Automation tools and build utilities
- **[CLI Enhancements](./scripts/CLI_ENHANCEMENTS)** - Command-line improvements
- **[Version Management](./scripts/VERSION_BUMPING)** - Automated version control

## 🛠️ Technical Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 14, React, TypeScript
- **Backend**: Node.js, PostgreSQL, Prisma
- **Security**: Advanced rate limiting with progressive penalties
- **Testing**: Playwright, Jest
- **Deployment**: Docker, PM2, GitHub Actions
- **Monitoring**: SonarQube, Custom analytics

## 🤝 Contributing

This project follows strict development standards:

1. **[Read Commit Guidelines](./project/commits)** - Follow our commit message format
2. **[Check Testing Guide](./development/testing)** - Ensure all tests pass
3. **[Review Migration Docs](./database/migrations)** - Understand database changes

## 📊 Project Status

- ✅ **Migration System**: Fully automated with rollback protection
- ✅ **Smart Filtering**: Advanced search with millions of records
- ✅ **Rate Limiting**: Comprehensive security and performance protection
- ✅ **Production Ready**: Deployed with comprehensive monitoring
- ✅ **Test Coverage**: E2E and unit tests with CI/CD

## 🔗 Quick Links

| Resource             | Description                      | Link                                |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **Main README**      | Project overview and setup       | [View](./getting-started)           |
| **Migration Guide**  | Database migration system        | [View](./database/migrations)       |
| **Rate Limiting**    | Security and performance system  | [View](./rate-limiting/)            |
| **Smart Filters**    | Advanced filtering documentation | [View](./development/smart-filters) |
| **Production Guide** | Deployment and operations        | [View](./deployment/production)     |

---

_Last updated: {{ site.time | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}_

> **Need help?** Check our documentation sections above or reach out to the development team.

Commit message:

feat: enhance API documentation and add OpenAPI support
- Added a new script to generate OpenAPI specifications for the API documentation, improving the integration with Jekyll.
- Introduced a new interactive Swagger UI for API documentation, allowing users to test and explore endpoints directly in their browser.
- Updated the swagger.config.js to include additional schemas and improved descriptions for various API responses.
- Enhanced existing API routes with Swagger annotations for better documentation and clarity.
- Removed the outdated swagger-setup.sh script as its functionality is now integrated into the new setup.

DOCS/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Idling.app Documentation
description: Complete documentation for the Idling.app project - migrations, deployment, development guides and more
---

# 📚 Idling.app Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for **Idling.app** - a modern social platform built with Next.js, PostgreSQL, and cutting-edge web technologies.

## 🚀 Quick Start

- **[Getting Started](./getting-started)** - Set up your development environment
- **[Database Setup](./database/migrations)** - Migration system and database management
- **[Rate Limiting](./rate-limiting/)** - Security and performance protection system
- **[Deployment Guide](./deployment)** - Production deployment instructions

## 📖 Documentation Sections

### 🔌 API Documentation

- **[Interactive Swagger UI](./api/swagger)** - Test and explore all API endpoints directly in your browser
- **[API Overview](./api/)** - Introduction to the idling.app API structure
- **[Authentication Guide](./getting-started#authentication)** - How to authenticate with the API

### 🧩 Components

- **[Rich Input System](./components/rich-input-system/)** - Comprehensive documentation for the intelligent text editing component

### 🗄️ Database & Migrations

- **[Migration System Guide](./database/migrations)** - Complete migration system documentation
- **[Database Optimization](./database/optimization)** - Performance optimization strategies
- **[Massive Seed Data](./database/massive-seed)** - Generate test data for development

### 🔧 Development

- **[Smart Filters](./development/smart-filters)** - Advanced filtering system
- **[Cache Strategy](./development/caching)** - Production caching implementation
- **[CI/CD Tests](./development/testing)** - Continuous integration setup

### 🛡️ Security & Rate Limiting

- **[Rate Limiting System](./rate-limiting/)** - Comprehensive rate limiting and security documentation
- **[System Overview](./rate-limiting/overview/)** - How the rate limiting system works
- **[User Guide](./rate-limiting/user-guide/)** - Best practices for working with rate limits
- **[Troubleshooting](./rate-limiting/troubleshooting/)** - Diagnosing and resolving rate limit issues
- **[Admin Guide](./rate-limiting/admin-guide/)** - Administrative tools and procedures

### 🚀 Deployment & Operations

- **[Production Deployment](./deployment/production)** - Server deployment guide
- **[Cache Management](./deployment/cache-management)** - Cache disabling and management
- **[Release Process](./deployment/releases)** - Release notes and versioning

### 🧪 Testing

- **[CI Testing Pipeline](./testing/ci-tests)** - Continuous integration testing
- **[Testing Strategy](./testing/)** - Unit, integration, and E2E testing

### 🔧 Troubleshooting

- **[Application Issues](./troubleshooting/application-issues-fixes)** - Common problems and solutions
- **[Debug Guide](./troubleshooting/)** - Troubleshooting methodology

### 🏗️ Architecture

- **[System Architecture](./architecture/)** - High-level system design and patterns
- **[User Identification](./architecture/USER_IDENTIFICATION_ARCHITECTURE)** - Authentication system design

### 📦 Components

- **[Component Library](./components/)** - UI component documentation and patterns

### 📚 Libraries

- **[Internal Libraries](./libraries/)** - Shared utilities and modules
- **[Parsers](./libraries/parsers)** - Text parsing utilities
- **[Logging System](./libraries/logging)** - Application logging and monitoring

### 📋 Templates

- **[Project Templates](./templates/)** - Standardized document formats
- **[Pull Request Template](./templates/pull_request_template)** - PR description format

### 📝 Project Management

- **[Commit Guidelines](./project/commits)** - Git commit standards
- **[Recent Updates](./project/updates)** - Latest project updates

### 📊 Reports

- **[Development Reports](./reports/)** - Feature debriefs and project analysis
- **[Demo Feature Debrief](./reports/demo-feature-debrief)** - Implementation analysis

### 🔧 Scripts

- **[Development Scripts](./scripts/)** - Automation tools and build utilities
- **[CLI Enhancements](./scripts/CLI_ENHANCEMENTS)** - Command-line improvements
- **[Version Management](./scripts/VERSION_BUMPING)** - Automated version control

## 🛠️ Technical Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 14, React, TypeScript
- **Backend**: Node.js, PostgreSQL, Prisma
- **Security**: Advanced rate limiting with progressive penalties
- **Testing**: Playwright, Jest
- **Deployment**: Docker, PM2, GitHub Actions
- **Monitoring**: SonarQube, Custom analytics

## 🤝 Contributing

This project follows strict development standards:

1. **[Read Commit Guidelines](./project/commits)** - Follow our commit message format
2. **[Check Testing Guide](./development/testing)** - Ensure all tests pass
3. **[Review Migration Docs](./database/migrations)** - Understand database changes

## 📊 Project Status

- ✅ **Migration System**: Fully automated with rollback protection
- ✅ **Smart Filtering**: Advanced search with millions of records
- ✅ **Rate Limiting**: Comprehensive security and performance protection
- ✅ **Production Ready**: Deployed with comprehensive monitoring
- ✅ **Test Coverage**: E2E and unit tests with CI/CD

## 🔗 Quick Links

| Resource              | Description                      | Link                                |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **Main README**       | Project overview and setup       | [View](./getting-started)           |
| **API Documentation** | Interactive Swagger UI           | [View](./api/swagger)               |
| **Migration Guide**   | Database migration system        | [View](./database/migrations)       |
| **Rate Limiting**     | Security and performance system  | [View](./rate-limiting/)            |
| **Smart Filters**     | Advanced filtering documentation | [View](./development/smart-filters) |
| **Production Guide**  | Deployment and operations        | [View](./deployment/production)     |

---

_Last updated: {{ site.time | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}_

> **Need help?** Check our documentation sections above or reach out to the development team.
